Hellooo! Let's walk through the course curriculum.
So you have an idea of what to expect in this course.
Now some of these topics may seem intimidating at first, but they're all connected and they are all key
components that make you a top level developer.
We're going to go step by step, working on real life problems, writing code, practicing so that we can
feel confident with each one of these topics.
Now the first part of the course is going to cover SSH. And in this SSH section, we're going to learn
about the SSH command. How to access remote computers how to connect to a server that is in another
part of the world.
We're going to learn about encryption about symmetrical and asymmetrical encryption as well as hashing.
And we're also going to learn about SSH keys about generating SSH keys, what public and private keys
are, and how to manage them on the server.
We're going to have some fun exercises where your app was just deleted off of a server in the middle
of the night and you have to move all your project falls back onto the server using SSH.
And we're also going to set up GitHub with SSH, after a nice short section to start us off.
We're then going to dive into a big big topic of performance optimization. And this is so big that I've
divided this into three parts.
The first part will be network optimizations.
We're going to talk about how we can minimize our files and improve delivery of our application. And
then we're going to learn about optimizations about the critical render path how to improve it.
So our Web site can load fast.
We're going to learn about progressive webapps, and about optimizing code, and we're going to help Kaiko
Corp. actually improve their company website as well as their robofriends app.
We're going to make a progressive webapp that works offline and can even be submitted to the App Store
using just javascript, HTML and CSS.
But we're also going to learn about interesting topics like code splitting and making reactive/redux
applications fast through smart rendering.
We'll then finish our complete understanding of performance optimizations by working on the back end
optimizations.
Talking about content delivery networks, scaling databases, compressing our responses, caching, and finally
load balancing where we'll implement a load balancer and actually do some load testing on our project.
By the end of it you're going to be a performance guru.
We are then going to get into react and redux.
The most popular content libraries to build single page applications. We'll first have a nice introduction
to react
if this is your first time learning it. And then we're going to quickly dive into redux talking about
state management and how to structure your apps so that they can grow.
And we also add a nice small section on bundling, on using the latest webapp, as well as an up and
comer like parcel to bundle our files and make our production bundle optimized. By the end of it,
you're going to feel comfortable with react/redux as well as setting up your projects with things like
that.
We then get into a topic that is so important but also often forgotten
when you first starting out, testing. Companies love testing, and if you know how to test, how to write
unit tests, integration tests you write better software.
We're going to start off by learning about the testing landscape in the current web developer world.
What tools to use, what libraries there are, how to set everything up, and then we're going to work with
just one of the top libraries to use for testing to.
Synchronous as well as asynchronous tests.
Right.
Mock's and have coverage reports. We're then going to dive into writing tests for our react app and making
sure that we use things like snapshot testing, an enzyme to write smart tests that avoid bugs in our
application.
By the end of it you can know the entire testing landscape, and feel comfortable reading any tests that
come your way.
We then dive into one of the hottest topics coming out of last year's web developer environment, typescript.
We're going to learn about static typing and why javascript didn't have static typing, and instead is
dynamically typed, and then we're going to learn how to use typescript, what types there are, and how to
add them to your project.
We're then going to finally add typescript into our react project and see how to add it to your own
projects.
By the end, once again, you'll master this topic.
From there we dive into a short section on single page applications.
We're going to talk about server side rendering the original way to display web sites.
Why it was useful and why it still may be useful in some companies still need it.
We're going to talk about single page applications and client side rendering.
Again the benefits impose when you want to implement one over the other.
I'm going to show you how to implement server side rendering and react.
And again, what the pros and cons are of each one.
We're going to dive in quickly into next.js
Yes a library that allows us to write server side dynamic applications very nicely.
By the end you'll be ready to make decisions on whether you want a single page app or a server side
rendered application for your project.
From there we dive into one of my favorite topics, security.
We're going to cover a diverse range of topics including front end security where we talk about cross
sites cryptic, injection attacks like SQL injections and will actually practice those to see how they
work.
We can talk about back end security and what the best practices are in order for us to manage sensitive data.
From there
we learn also a few ethical hacking techniques so that we can protect ourselves when we're building
our up so that you feel confident by the end that you're building secure applications using the latest
tips and tricks.
And then we get into docker, a tool that's going to absolutely amaze you.
We're going to learn about containers and how containers now revolutionized how companies structure
their applications. We're actually going to write docker files and create our own containers and then
we're going to use docker compose to compose a ready server a postgres database and an API server all into
one so that they all run from one connect. By the end of it
we're going to feel very comfortable with docker whenever we deploy our applications.
We then start learning about a new database.
Redis is one of the most popular and often used databases
that is a key value storage. We'll first dive into the topic of databases and the type of databases that we
have.
From there we'll spin up our own redis server learn how to use redis how to use the Redis CLI so that
we're able to use Redis now for caching to make our web sites faster, as well as for session management. Something
that will cover in the next topic. Using our smart brain app,
we're going to create an entire dynamic part of the Web site that is user management.
We're going to start off by creating a new profile page, and using this profile page we're going to learn
about session based authentication where cookies would be used and also about token authentication such
as using JWT tokens.
We're going to learn about each one of those what the pros and cons are of each.
And then we're actually going to implement a secure authentication flow that you can implement and any
app that you choose.
We're going to use Redis for session management so that we have protected routes.
And this way any time we have a sign in functionality, we have members we can use this system knowing
that it's secure and it follows best practices. Yes!
We still have more topics.
This course is quite extensive.
We then are going to talk about AWS. What Amazon Web Services is and also what infrastructure as a service
and platform as a service has done in terms of allowing companies to really scale or work as efficiently
as Google or Amazon or Microsoft.
And then we're going to learn about this exciting serverless technology called AWS Lambda which allows
us to run just simple functions in the cloud and we're going to use the serverless framework to actually
implement AWS Lambda into our smart brain application.
By the end of it you're going to feel confident working with AWS and creating functions that live in
the cloud. After we've tried everything together and created the overall picture of how to write good
software, good applications, we're then going to talk about how to actually create good processes. How
to actually deploy to production.
We're going to talk about good continuous integration practices and then also about continuous delivery
and continuous deployment so that when you are put on a project you know how to implement good practices
and good tools like Circle CI to make sure that from the start. Your developer team has the right
tools and the right processes in place to be successful to write applications with less bugs and cleaner
code.
And then a little extra bits area where I talk about some of my personal experiences and opinion.
I talk about code analysis and what to do when you first start off on a project where you have a ton
of files and you didn't write the code yourself.
We're going to talk about tips and tricks to really optimize that.
I'm going to talk a bit about best practices things that we couldn't include in the other sections.
And then a couple other little extra bits so that by the end of it by the end of the entire course all
of these things will make sense to you.
You'll be able to implement all of these sayings into your own projects into your own company and you'll
know how each and every one of them are connected.
But most of all by the end of it you're going to learn things that took me years and years to learn.
And the next video your first day of work is finally going to start a Kaiko Corp.
Enjoy the projects, enjoy the exercises.
We're going to be building a lot of fun things have fun and enjoy the ride.